---
layout: post
title:  "Alola!"
date:   2019-04-25 00:00:00 +0800
categories: about
---

In the 1st industrial revolution (~1700s), we saw mechanical production, railroads and steam power.  
In the 2nd industrial revolution (~1800s), we saw mass production, electricity and assembly lines.  
In the 3rd industrial revolution (~1900s), we saw automated production, electronics and computers.

Welcome to the 4th industrial revolution. :)

We’re in the midst of it, but like any other macro-level changes in life, you might not realize it on a day-to-day basis but it becomes obvious on hindsight. 

It's just a personal hypothesis, but the foundations of the future we will witness and experience in our generation are already present in our world - there is only so much the world can possibly create within a century. There are always black swans, extraordinary events that turns the tide and are impossible to predict but majority of our future are actually predictable if we stare at it hard enough, or come up with the right algorithms to do so. Our generation has the largest amount of data ever collected, but we need a smarter way to represent them and utilize them. If we succeed, perhaps efficient representation learning - building models that can learn well from a reasonable amount of data - will be the hallmark of the 21st century?  

AI. Big Data. Cybersecurity. OSS. Personalization. Sustainability. There’s more to come. 

What is needed to gain a good understanding of the modern world? 

What are the defining characteristics of our generation, elements that set us apart from our past and the ones that are likely to guide us to predict how the future will be like? 

Does it matter? Perhaps not and there’s no way for us to know yet. 

These are some questions that this blog tries to answer. 
